doc/randomkitExtra.markdown, before:

#torch-randomkit: extra functions

These functions are provided in addition to the scipy randomkit functions.

##Poisson

###randomkit.poissonPDF(x, lambda)

Probability density function of a Poisson distribution with mean `lambda`, evaluated at `x`.

###randomkit.poissonLogPDF(x, lambda)

Log of probability density function of a Poisson distribution with mean `lambda`, evaluated at `x`.

###randomkit.poissonCDF(x, lambda)

Cumulative distribution function of a Poisson distribution with mean `lambda`, evaluated at `x`.

##Gaussian

###randomkit.gaussianPDF(x, mu, sigma)

Probability density function of a Gaussian distribution with mean `mu` and standard deviation `sigma`, evaluated at `x`.

###randomkit.gaussianCDF(x, mu, sigma)

Cumulative distribution function of a Gaussian distribution with mean `mu` and standard deviation `sigma`, evaluated at `x`.

##Cauchy

###randomkit.cauchyPDF(x, a, b)

Probability density function of a Cauchy distribution with location `a` and scale `b`, evaluated at `x`.

###randomkit.cauchyCDF(x, a, b)

Cumulative distribution function of a Cauchy distribution with location `a` and scale `b`, evaluated at `x`.

Commit message:

Add cauchyLogPDF, with tests and docs

doc/randomkitExtra.markdown, after:

#torch-randomkit: extra functions

These functions are provided in addition to the scipy randomkit functions.

##Poisson

###randomkit.poissonPDF(x, lambda)

Probability density function of a Poisson distribution with mean `lambda`, evaluated at `x`.

###randomkit.poissonLogPDF(x, lambda)

Log of probability density function of a Poisson distribution with mean `lambda`, evaluated at `x`.

###randomkit.poissonCDF(x, lambda)

Cumulative distribution function of a Poisson distribution with mean `lambda`, evaluated at `x`.

##Gaussian

###randomkit.gaussianPDF(x, mu, sigma)

Probability density function of a Gaussian distribution with mean `mu` and standard deviation `sigma`, evaluated at `x`.

###randomkit.gaussianCDF(x, mu, sigma)

Cumulative distribution function of a Gaussian distribution with mean `mu` and standard deviation `sigma`, evaluated at `x`.

##Cauchy

###randomkit.cauchyPDF(x, a, b)

Probability density function of a Cauchy distribution with location `a` and scale `b`, evaluated at `x`.

###randomkit.cauchyLogPDF(x, a, b)

Log of probability density function of a Cauchy distribution with location `a` and scale `b`, evaluated at `x`.

###randomkit.cauchyCDF(x, a, b)

Cumulative distribution function of a Cauchy distribution with location `a` and scale `b`, evaluated at `x`.
